Hello and welcome to the last
session of the day where we'll
be talking about advanced image
handling with Image I/O Framework.
And just a reminder,
just because the slide up here says
to refrain from taking pictures,
that just refers to the presentation.
Other than that,
we really want you to take pictures
because we have some great imaging
in our system and we want to make
sure you take advantage of it.
So, first of all,
my name is David Hayward.
I'm an engineer and manager
in the graphics and imaging
group at Apple and I work on
Image I/O and RAW imaging as well.
And we have a lot to talk about today.
We'll be giving an architectural
overview of image handling in the system,
talking about opening images,
displaying images,
adjusting RAW images in particular.
There's lots of exciting new
features that we have there.
And last but not least,
you've got to save your work,
so saving images.
So first off, the architectural overview.
When we first added Image I/O Framework
in Tiger in the last release,
we had several key features
we wanted to achieve,
and these are still true today.
We wanted to be able to
write many file formats,
read many file formats,
support reading and
writing of key metadata,
support automatic color management
through ICC profiles and the like.
We also want to support
processing RAW images,
which is an emerging field that
has all sorts of interesting
ramifications on image processing.
Also, we wanted to be able to support
other features such as incremental
loading for web browsers and
advanced image formats such as
floating point pixel file formats.
One of the first questions people
ask me about Image I/O is often,
"Well,
what file formats do you support?" Well,
we support all the common web
standard file formats such as TIFF,
JPEG, PING, GIF, JPEG 2000.
We actually have a new version of
JPEG 2000 in the seed that you have.
Also, we support several
advanced floating-point,
high-dynamic range file
formats such as OpenEXR,
Radiance,
and varieties of TIFFs such as FloatTIFF,
LogLuvTIFF, and PixartTIFF encodings.
And of course, we support a whole bunch
of RAW file formats,
and this is something we've been spending
a lot of time on in the last year or so,
from a wide variety of camera vendors.
There's also a wide variety of legacy
file formats that we all use frequently,
which is BMP formats,
Photoshop documents, QTIF, you name it.
And in the subject of metadata,
there's a wide variety of metadata
standards that are in wide use.
And we support many of those,
such as EXIF, IPTC, GPS metadata,
and some vendor-specific maker notes.
And of course,
this is something that's going to
be continuing to grow in the future,
especially in the area
of RAW file formats.
We've been adding support in every
major release and also a lot of
the software updates as well.
So how does all this fit
into the overall system?
Well, first we start with wherever
possible open source implementations,
such as libTIFF and libJPEG and libPNG.
Other file formats we
have our own code for.
And all of these file formats
we wrap in an API we refer to
as the Image I/O Framework.
And this allows your application
to have a single common interface
for reading and writing file
formats across all these varieties.
These are built on the
foundation of Darwin,
and on top of the Image I/O layer,
we have higher-level graphics APIs,
such as Core Image and Quartz,
which make use of Image I/O.
Above that in the stack,
we have Carbon and Cocoa frameworks,
which also make use of
Image I/O indirectly.
And last but not least,
we have applications,
many of which in the system are using
Image I/O either directly or implicitly
through the higher-level frameworks.
So as you might guess by this stack,
that there is a variety of
APIs that we have on our
system for accessing Image I/O.
And some of the key data types that keep
in mind are that a modern graphic system
needs to have data types for color space,
a way of representing bitmap images,
a way of representing individual
colors for vector artwork,
and also a context of some sort.
And of course,
we have a whole stack of APIs,
and your choice as to
which one you want to use,
all of these have these basic constructs.
What we'll be talking about
today are the core image and
quartz data types in particular.
I should mention that in many cases,
there are very easy ways of
converting between these data types.
We'll talk more about that later.
So before I go into more detail about
Image I/O and how it's implemented,
let's just briefly get a discussion of
what's actually in a typical image file.
Well, the key requirements for
an image are its geometry,
i.e.
its height and its width and its pixel
depth and other information like that,
its color space,
which describes the color
characteristics of the pixel values,
and the actual pixel data.
Then there's some optional information,
which is nice to have where possible,
which is embedded
thumbnails and metadata.
Some file formats also support
multiple images per file,
and that's important to keep in mind.
Formats such as GIF and
TIFF come to mind.
Because there can be
multiple images in a file,
there are some properties that actually
transcend any individual image.
These are properties such as
the actual file format itself
and other file properties.
For example,
GIF has some properties that apply
to the entire animation rather
than to any one single frame.
So how do we expose this
in the Image I/O API?
Well, the file type of the file is
represented as a CFStringRef,
which is a UTI.
The file properties is a dictionary,
CFDictionary.
The image attributes,
such as the geometry, color space,
and pixel data, are well encapsulated by
the CGImageRef description.
It can describe a wide
variety of pixel formats.
Thumbnails and others,
optional CGImageRef.
And the metadata is, again, a dictionary.
So those are the basics of
what makes up an image and
the basic ideas of Image I/O.
Let's talk first about how to
open images with Image I/O.
So the basic steps involved with reading
an image involve parsing the file and
getting key information from that file,
such as decompressing the pixel data,
determining what the color
space of that file is,
and extracting the metadata.
So this can be provided via a
small set of APIs in Image I/O.
It's very simple.
First off is you should get a list of
what file formats Image I/O can read.
This is provided by returning
a UTI array using the
API CG Image Source Copy Type Identifiers
.
And this is a good thing
for your application to take
advantage of because we are,
as I mentioned earlier,
constantly adding new file formats.
And if you make use of this API,
your application can grow to use
those formats without having to rev.
I should also mention at this point
that in the seed that you have,
some of the file formats
are not supported,
especially the legacy formats,
are not supported on 64,
just a few of them, 64-bit.
So again, it's a good idea to call this
API because it will tell you
what formats are supported under
your current instruction set.
Once you know what kind
of files you can open,
you can open a file
using CG Image Source,
Create with URL, or Create with Data,
or Create with Data Provider.
This returns an opaque object from
which you can get critical information
such as the type of the file that the
image actually is and the number of
images that are contained within it.
Then for each image
within that image source,
you can get the actual image
by calling CGImageSource,
CreateImageAtIndex, get the metadata by
calling CGImageSource,
CopyPropertiesAtIndex,
and you guessed it,
you can get the thumbnail
by calling CGImageSource,
CreateThumbnailAtIndex.
So this is a minimal code
snippet that just shows how
easy it is to use Image I/O.
This function, the idea behind it is to,
given a URL, return a CG image ref.
And all we do is, given that URL,
we call CG image source, create with URL.
Then we call CG image source,
create image and index,
passing in the index 0.
That's it.
It's very simple.
One thing to be aware of, however,
is that file formats come
in a variety of flavors,
and some file formats
support only one pixel depth.
For example,
JPEG is always eight bits per sample.
Other file formats support
a variety of pixel depths,
such as TIFF,
which can be arbitrarily depth.
One thing to keep in
mind is that as a rule,
Image I/O will return a CG image ref
with the same depth as the original file.
However, in the case of high dynamic
range or floating point formats,
things are slightly more complicated.
In this case,
the data that's in the file is
often specially encoded or packed.
And the open source code that's available
to decompress that data often has several
options for how to interpret that data.
Often the data can either be
unpacked as floats or integers,
and also with different depths,
either half floats or full floats,
or 8-bit integers or 16-bit integers.
Also, the data can be either returned as
extended range or tone compressed
into the logical range of 0 to 1.
So there's already a lot of options
for floating point images that we
didn't have to deal with for some of
the more traditional file formats.
And our choice with Image I/O was to
always return a CG image ref that's
tone compressed into 16-bit images.
This produces good results for
a wide variety of applications.
However,
if your application wants to get direct
access to the floating point data,
you can opt into this by request,
and you can get extended range floats.
This is a simple code snippet that
shows how easy it is to do this.
Again, it's very similar to the
previous code snippet.
The only difference is that we're
passing in an options dictionary to
Image I/O to change the behavior.
In this case,
we're passing an option dictionary
that contains one key value.
The CG image source should allow float,
and the Boolean true
is the value for that.
So if we want to get the image back,
we can test to see if it actually
is float by calling cgimage,
get bitmap info, and seeing if the float
attribute is set on it.
So next I'd like to talk a
little bit more about metadata.
When Image I/O returns metadata,
it returns it as a dictionary.
And this dictionary contains,
at the root level of the dictionary,
general properties,
which are common to a wide
variety of file formats.
These are properties such as height,
width, orientation, and color space.
This provides easy access
for applications to get
this general information.
The metadata dictionary also
contains sub-dictionaries,
however,
and these are sub-dictionaries for
metadata file formats such as TIFF,
EXIF, IPTC, and GPS.
And these are grouped
into sub-dictionaries.
One thing we did when we designed
these dictionaries is we tried wherever
possible to keep the keys and values in
these dictionaries as close as possible
to what's actually in the specification.
This means, for example,
when you get the TIFF properties,
there'll be a property
called Resolution Unit,
and the values for that
will be a number such as 1,
2, or 3,
which is consistent with the TIFF spec.
Or, in another little crazier example,
the compression value can be
arbitrary values such as 1,
5,
or even seemingly random numbers like 3,
2, 7, 7, 3.
It is up to your application
or the client to localize the
keys and the values as you
see fit in your application.
For example,
your application might want to display
the resolution unit in the more human
understandable values such as none,
inch, or cm.
Or in the case of compression,
in this example, no compression,
LCW compression, or packed bits.
So again,
here's a very simple code snippet
for how to get metadata out
of an image using Image I/O.
We can call CGImageSource
create with URL,
as we did before.
And now we call CGImageSource
copy properties at index.
And this returns a dictionary.
In this sample,
all we're doing is getting some of the
general properties out of the file,
such as the property DPI width,
DPI height, and orientation.
These three properties are
actually critical for the
proper display of your image.
I'll talk more about that in a bit.
Back to the subject of
thumbnails for a bit.
Image I/O has some very flexible support
for providing thumbnails for images.
And the reason we provided this is
that there's a wide variety of needs
that applications have for thumbnails.
Some applications want
something that's very quick.
Other applications might want something
that's better quality for thumbnails.
And there's no one right
answer for all applications.
There's sort of a hierarchy
of needs for thumbnails.
Sometimes all an application wants
is just a generic icon for the file.
That's very fast, it's small size,
but it's not at all representative
of the actual content in the file.
In between,
there is some image file formats
support embedded thumbnails.
These are fast,
and typically it only requires
reading the first fraction of the
file to find the embedded thumbnail.
They're small size, which can be good,
typically 160 by 120 pixels.
But they may look different
than the actual image content,
so that's something to be aware of.
Lastly, the best level of thumbnail is
to actually ask for a reduced
representation of the full image.
This may be slower than in
any of the previous methods,
but they can be arbitrary size,
and they will look very
close to the actual image.
And when thumbnail-ing in this mode,
Image I/O takes whatever tricks
are possible to try to return an
image that's sufficiently good
quality for the size it's requested.
So here's a short example for how
your application can get thumbnails.
And in one call,
you can kind of get some of the
best of both worlds in this example.
We again create an image source with URL,
and we're passing in two key values.
The first is the property CGImageSource
createThumbnailFromImageIfAbsent.
What this means is that an image
will be returned quickly from the
embedded thumbnail if it's present,
but if not, it will return it from
the full-size image.
So this is useful for
a lot of quick cases.
Second, we specify that we want the image
to be no bigger than 160 pixels.
Again, this is useful because a lot of
applications want to limit the size of
their thumbnails to something reasonable.
Once we create the option
dictionary with these two keys,
we call CG Image Source Create Thumbnail
at index.
So I'm going to give a quick
demo of this in practice.
So if you've been to any
other graphic sessions here,
there's been a lot of examples showing
arrays of images in thumbnail browsers.
And one of the great features in
Leopard is ImageKit's new icon browser,
which does such a great
job of doing thumbnails.
It actually uses Image I/O to look
for the embedded thumbnails first,
and then on a separate thread,
it brings in the higher quality images.
It does a great job.
But for purposes of demonstration
of how things work internally,
it actually does too good a job,
because it all does it transparently.
So what I'd like to have here is a
little sample application that can
show the different levels of quality
of thumbnails with some control
that's given to me via sliders.
What I have here is a folder
of a whole bunch of images.
And this application
is doing a lightweight,
lazy loading of icons and showing some
basic metadata information as well.
One thing we can do is
we can adjust the size,
obviously.
But this is just a very crude
representation of the file.
This is just the generic icon,
which is very fast,
but not very indicative of the content.
So what we can do here is adjust
the quality of the thumbnail.
And what you'll see here is I said
that I would like to use the
embedded thumbnail if present.
And what you'll see here is now
things look a little better.
It's not the best resolution.
You can see some pixelization
on this thumbnail.
And you'll also see that
oftentimes with thumbnails,
there's black bars at the top and bottom.
So this is pretty good, and it's fast.
You can see as we scroll
through the image,
they peel in very quickly.
It's not ideal.
And so what this application also
does is allows you to turn it up
to render a reduced representation
of the full-size image.
And now you can see what's happened
here is as we go to larger sizes,
we see the full quality of the image.
And again,
things are pretty quick because
we can take tricks wherever
possible to produce images.
You can see here it's slightly blurry,
and when I let go,
it'll come in a little sharper.
So we used whatever tricks possible.
In the case of JPEGs,
we can ask for reduced size JPEGs and
reduce the computation considerably.
Again, on the subject of metadata,
if I select one of these images,
this view over here shows all
the metadata that's in that file.
And this is a good illustration of the
hierarchical dictionaries that we return.
These are all the general
properties such as height,
width, orientation-- this one's
rotated-- and the DPI.
And then we have sub-dictionaries
for all the separate subgroups
of metadata such as EXIF,
TIFF properties,
and some Canon Maker notes.
In the code, this is very simple.
This code is not yet on the CD,
but we'll make it available.
In this function here,
we have a very simple function to get
the embedded thumbnail of a given size.
Again, all we're doing is calling
CG Image Source Create Thumbnail
at index,
and we're passing in a couple properties.
One is we're specifying the size
that we want it returned at.
And also, we're saying we want the image
auto-rotated if possible.
This is another nice
feature of Thumbnailing,
which is if you pass in the
CG Image Source Create Thumbnail
with Transform,
it'll automatically rotate the image
so it looks the right orientation.
The higher fidelity image that we return,
I refer to it as main image with size.
And again, it's very similar.
Again, we pass in an options dictionary.
In this case,
we say that we want to pass in
the property CG image source,
create thumbnail from image always.
That's about it.
So back to the slides.
So now that we know how to open
images and get metadata from them,
the next thing I'd like to talk
about is displaying images.
So these are the general steps that
are involved with displaying an image.
It is actually quite complex.
It involves actions such
as color conversion,
bit depth conversion, geometry mapping,
and then compositing on the existing
background if transparency is available.
The good thing is all of this
complex functionality is provided
via a single API in Core Graphics,
which is CG Context Draw Image.
Now, one of the things about CG Context
Draw Image is that it takes a CG image,
but that doesn't mean Cocoa Apps can't
use this API or use CG images directly.
It's possible from an NSViewDrawRack
method to get the CG context
from the NSGraphics context.
So this is a great thing because it
allows Cocoa applications like the
one I just showed to directly call
CG image sources and get all the
flexibility that's available to those.
So here's a brief code snippet
that shows how we do this.
We have a draw rec call.
We get the current CG context by calling
NSGraphicsContextCurrentContextGraphicsP
ort.
The next thing we're doing
is we're getting the height
and width of the image,
and then we're going to get an image
transform for the current view.
I'll talk a little bit
more about that later.
We then concatenate that image transform,
which is a CG affine transform,
to the current context,
and then we draw the image in the view.
One of the things we really
don't want our users to see,
however, is what we see here,
which is-- and we've all seen
this before-- where the images
are not rotated correctly.
And often this is the case because
the image has metadata in it
that says it needs to be rotated,
but the application is not
respecting that metadata.
Similarly,
this is a slightly less common case.
There are image formats
that have non-square pixels.
Again, these formats have metadata that
say what the DPI and the vertical
and horizontal direction are.
But if your application
doesn't respect that metadata,
then you won't get the image you expect.
And that's bad for our users.
So there's a very small amount
of code that you can write that
will correctly create a CGA-fine
transform from the metadata.
The three pieces of metadata that
are critical are the DPI and the
horizontal and vertical direction,
and the orientation value.
These orientation values
are values between 1 and 8,
and they're defined in the TIFF spec.
They're very hard to predict
what they actually mean.
There's no rhyme or reason
to it as far as I can tell.
But the key is that 1 means normal,
and 2 means flip horizontal,
and so forth.
And the idea is to convert these
values along with the DPI into a CTM.
So this is a very handy function.
There's a couple other advanced
techniques that I'd like to talk about
as far as drawing images are concerned.
One of the common questions I have is,
well, how do I just get the
RGB data out of an image?
And that's a little bit
tricky because in CG,
CG image refs are opaque,
immutable types.
So the way to get data out
of them is to actually render
them into a bitmap context.
This is actually a good thing because
it forces the application to decide,
well, I don't just want RGB data,
but I want RGB data in
a specific color space.
So in this case, we create a color space.
In this case, we are asking for a
generic RGB coordinates.
We create a context with the
appropriate size and a buffer
of data and that color space.
And we call the CG context Draw Image to
draw the image into that context.
So now once that draw is complete,
we can release some stuff and the data
is now available for the application to
get the pixel data out of that image.
Another common subject for a more
advanced rendering of images is
what to deal with images that
don't have embedded profiles.
Often times there are legacy
files that are still around that
don't have embedded profiles.
It's becoming increasingly rare.
But there's no one right answer
as far as how to render images
without embedded profiles.
And usually the best solution
is to give your user the choice
of how to handle this situation.
So this shows you how to write the
code to assign default profiles.
First of all, we have an image,
and we need to determine whether
it doesn't have a profile in it.
And the way this code does this
is to get the current color space
from the image and see if the color
space is one of the following:
if it's either device gray, device RGB,
or device CMYK.
If it's equal to any of these,
then we're going to use a
default color space instead.
This code doesn't show how to ask
the user and provide user interface,
but we can leave that as an exercise.
Once we have the default color space
that we want to replace it with,
we call CGImageCreateCopy
with color space.
And that's all there is to it.
Another important thing to keep in
mind in terms of color management of
images is to make sure that your images
are matched correctly across displays.
There's one line you can add
to your NSView that will make
this happen automatically,
and that is tell the window that it
wants to receive redraw events when the
window's profile has changed or when
the window moves to a different display.
This is done with set displays
when screen profile changes.
This is all you need to do.
What happens then is whenever the
profile changes or the window moves,
your application will automatically
receive an event that needs
to redraw that content.
The next thing I'd like to talk
about today is a subject that's
now near and dear to my heart,
which is adjusting RAW images.
RAW images are one of the interesting
areas that have been growing
up in the last couple years,
and I'd like to talk about the
fundamentals of RAW images,
the architectural overview,
and how you can use a new filter
that we've provided in Leopard.
So here's a crash course on RAW images,
some of the fundamentals.
So a RAW image, a camera RAW file,
contains minimally processed data
from the actual sensor of a camera.
What this means is that it's required
to have special image processing
in order to produce an image that's
suitable for display or print.
There are several things
involved in this process.
First of all,
the file needs to be decoded
in order to get the actual bare
sensor data out of the file.
We need to extract critical
metadata from the file in order to
know how to process it correctly.
And then there's a series of
spatial reconstruction methods,
such as debaring and
compensating for noise and
chroma blur and luma sharpening,
and color processing,
such as highlight recovery,
adjusting exposure and temperature tint,
converting from the scene-referred
data to an output-referred color space.
And as always,
there's subjective aspects of this,
and so there's a certain amount
of subjective seasoning that can
be added to this recipe as well to
produce an image that's pleasing.
So all of this requires
dozens of parameters.
And in order to produce these images,
Image I/O will maintain these dozens
of parameters for all the camera
models that have been qualified.
We're also continuously improving
our RAW processing methods,
and what this means is that
Image I/O maintains multiple
method versions as well.
One thing to keep in mind is by default,
Image I/O will return a CG image
ref that's rendered according
to the default parameters and
according to the latest version.
So this is great for most
typical applications.
However, the default parameters--
Cannot be perfect for all
photographs or all photographers.
Everyone's got different
opinions and different images
require different processing.
And this is one of the great
things about RAW file formats,
is that the user can have high-fidelity
control over how the image is developed.
This is the whole benefit.
So to provide this benefit,
we provided a new filter in
Core Image called the CIRAW filter,
which is designed to give your
application and your users easy control
over the RAW processing parameters.
And also,
we wanted to make sure it was fast and
interactive and had high performance.
So here's roughly how this works.
We start with a RAW image,
which can be provided
either as a URL or data.
And we provide this as an input
parameter into the CI RAW filter.
Also into the CI RAW filter,
we provide user adjustments,
such as exposure and temperature tint.
If these aren't provided,
then the default values are used.
Once these are provided,
from the CI RAW filter,
you can extract a CI image.
This CI image can be
rendered to the display,
and then based on the user feedback,
the user can provide new slider
positions for adjustments
such as exposure and tint,
and the process can repeat itself.
There's another output, however,
which is from a CI image,
you can also create a CG image.
And from that CG image,
we can then produce a new file on disk.
So both for interactive use
on the display and also for
final rendering to files,
you can use this new CI RAW filter
to provide user control over
adjustments to the RAW processing.
This is a very, very brief code snippet
that shows how this works.
What we have as a function here,
that instead of just returning
the default RAW image,
we'll provide an adjusted
RAW image instead.
We start with calling a CI filter,
saying we want the filter with
a URL and no options by default.
Then we want to provide a
default exposure value to
override the normal exposure.
In this case,
we're specifying a value of -1 to
make the image a little darker.
Once we've provided the
inputs to the filter,
we can now ask for a CI image
to get for the output.
And that we call just calling value
for key and saying CI output image key.
That's it.
However, it's much better to show this
in person because there's a
lot more you can do with this.
And I'd like to bring up Stan Jirman
who will show it in my action.
Okay.
Can you hear me now?
I guess I can hear myself.
So this is a demo app that you
probably have seen in some other
Core Image and other demos.
I'll go into a little
bit more detail here.
It shows the capabilities of
the CIRROW filter as it ships in
your current developer preview.
Here we have an image of
astronaut Alan Poindexter,
who's showing me the inside of one of
his two engines on his training jet.
It's overexposed, which is why it ended
up in the trash can,
but it's really great for the
demo because with a RAW filter,
you can adjust the highlights in
such a way that the sky retains
the details in the clouds.
At the same time, you could,
for instance,
append a gamma filter that would
allow you to reclaim some of
the detail in the jet engine.
Now, I don't know how much you
can see on the projector,
but if I overdo it a little bit,
you see that you get the detail
in the clouds at the same time
as the detail in the engine.
You cannot do that with a non-RAW image,
which is when you take the same image,
convert it into TIFF in
the default configuration,
you can decrease the
brightness all you want,
or the exposure,
and the clouds just will never come back.
This also shows that you can use the
CI RAW filter not just for RAW files.
You can use the CI RAW filter as
the first pass for input for any
images coming into your application.
Just in the case of a non-RAW file,
we will do the best we can with
retaining or making the image
behave as close as possible as
what the equivalent RAW file would.
To go back,
to a better example about white balance,
everybody meet Rachel,
you can click on any point in the image,
for instance, and like her white shirt,
and then the image will be adjusted
to the appropriate white balance.
You could not do that quite the same way
if this image was a JPEG as an input.
You can also use Temptant sliders,
which are always a little bit more
nervous on the bottom end of the scale
than on the high end of the scale,
for temperature and tint.
Now how does this work
inside the application?
Is this more or less legible to change
the resolution at the last moment?
Let me make it a little bit bigger.
Yeah.
So how does this look in code?
First of all, we load the image.
We create a CI filter with
the contents of that URL.
And then I go and I query the default
white balance settings for that image,
which typically a camera will report
the white balance information,
what it thought it was
when the picture was taken.
And that's how you get
the default settings,
which are not always right.
Then later on, you can go and tweak it
with changing the exposure.
This is my filter,
and I set it to the value
of whatever the sender was,
either the text field or the slider.
The same applies for the white balance.
I just create a CI vector with X and Y.
I'll get to that a little bit later.
And I set it on the image.
There's also a way to go and click,
which is also shown in this example.
And I'm not going to
get too much into that.
In the UI, you have seen two ways of
setting the white balance.
There is the clicking,
and there's the temp/tense slider.
That's the two things that most
people are really familiar with.
If you want a little bit
more scientific approach,
you can also set the
X and Y color values,
which is what we're actually
using in this particular example.
I think that's it for the reading demo.
There's going to be another
one later for writing.
So now that we've produced
these great results on screen,
the last thing we want
to do is save images.
And this can also be done with Image I/O.
It's very simple.
First of all, these are the general steps
that are involved with
saving images with Image I/O.
The application needs to
provide the framework with the
image and optional metadata,
and then also a couple other things,
such as various options that
are used when saving the image,
such as compression type
or compression quality.
They also specify what file
format it should be saved as.
Once these inputs are provided,
then the file format code
will compress the pixel data,
embed the profile, and embed the metadata
and produce a file.
So this is how this is
done in Image I/O with the
CG Image Destination API.
First off,
there's a way of getting the list of what
file formats are supported by Image I/O.
You can call CG Image Destination
Copy Type Identifiers.
Again, this is very important for
your application to call.
Not all formats that are readable
by Image I/O are writable,
and that list of writable formats
is likely to improve in the future.
So it's a great thing for your
application to make use of this API.
Once you know that your
file can be written,
you can create a CG image
destination type by calling CG image
destination create with URL,
create with data,
or create with data consumer.
At the time that you
create the destination,
you also specify the file format
in the form of a UTI string.
You specify the number of images
that will be written into that file.
Next, for each image that you want
to write into that file,
which may be one or maybe more than one,
you can set the image, options,
and metadata all at the same time by
calling CG Image Destination Add Image.
Then when you're done,
you call CG Image Destination Finalize.
So let me show you how
that looks in code.
Here's a function that's
called WriteJPEGImage that
does exactly what it says,
which is to write a JPEG data into a
URL with one small piece of metadata,
in this case,
which is the DPI of the file.
First thing we do is we call
CGImageDestinationCreateWithURL.
We specify that the UTI is public.jpeg,
and that will be providing one image.
The next thing we'll be doing
is providing this dictionary.
And again, the dictionary that we provide
is used for two things.
One is for metadata,
and the other are options for saving.
So in this case,
we have the first property in the
dictionary is CG Image Destination
Compression Quality,
which we're setting to 0.8.
So the libjpg code will be passed
the value from this dictionary.
The other values in this
dictionary are metadata properties,
such as in this case,
we're going to be specifying
the DPI width and DPI height
based on the input parameter.
So given this combined dictionary,
we will call
CG Image Destination Add Image,
and specifying the image destination,
the image, and the options and
properties that we specified.
Lastly,
we call CG Image Destination Finalize.
Here's a similar example for TIFFs,
slightly more complicated because
there's some TIFF-specific
attributes that we need to set.
Again, we call cgimage-destination
create with URL,
this time specifying public.TIFF.
And what we want to do is we want
to specify a TIFF compression type.
And in this code example,
what we want to do is if the bits
per sample is greater than 8,
we want to use no compression.
And if it's less than or equal to 8,
then we'll use LZW compression.
So the magic values for this are 1 and 5.
You could include the libTIFF
headers and get these values,
or define your own constants.
The important thing to remember
is you don't want to specify
LZW if it's greater than 8,
because you'll actually produce
files that are slower and bigger.
It's unfortunate, but true.
So we put this property inside
a dictionary which we're
calling the TIFF properties.
This is a sub-dictionary that we're going
to be putting these TIFF attributes in.
Then we're going to be creating
the main property dictionary,
which is going to contain, as before,
the DPI height and width and the
TIFF dictionary that we just created.
We then pass this combined dictionary
to CG Image Destination Add Image,
specifying the image and the
destination in this hierarchical
dictionary of metadata and options.
And then we call
CG Image Destination Finalize.
So one thing you might have
noticed is that we weren't doing
anything here to preserve metadata.
Ideally your application,
if it reads an image, should make note of
the original metadata.
And then when it comes time to write,
start with that metadata,
and then specify the
options on top of that.
So that code wasn't shown.
Also you'll notice from this code
that there is stuff that needs to
be done that's file format specific.
It should be expected.
File formats have different features,
and you need to be able to take
advantage of those features.
So there's a little bit of work on
the case of an application if they
want to know how to write TIFF files.
There's stuff they need
to know about TIFFs,
and if they need to
know about JPEG files,
they need to know about JPEG files.
This can be made a lot easier, however,
given a new feature we have in ImageKit,
which provides an accessory
view to an NSSavePanel.
And the idea behind this is to make
a lot of this work and drudgery very,
very simple for a typical application
that just wants to put up a save panel.
So to show this in action, again,
I'll be bringing up Stan,
who will show this.
Sounds like this time
the microphone works.
So let me go back to my demo.
And let's say we have made
our image adjusted to taste.
The white balance here
is a little bit off.
This is in nearby Santa Clara,
south of here.
I live there and I could
not believe my eyes.
So I now just adjusted
this image to taste,
and I want to save it.
Now, you saw the dictionaries
that David was showing.
And that is pretty complex about
all the settings that you need
to put into those dictionaries.
You need to know a lot of stuff
about public.jpeg and all that.
And this image kit,
new image kit feature,
is this accessory view that
can be added to your save panel
pretty much automatically.
And now I can go and I say, for instance,
I want to save this image.
I'm going to save this image as jpeg.
And you see automatically,
I did not have to write
any code for that.
The secondary view,
when I go switch again,
you see it changes,
has come with the appropriate further
controls for that given format.
So I can now save the image as best.
Let's say Facility 1.
Personally, I don't like hide extension.
So now it goes and saves it.
And I will go and--
First I did a save as,
so let me load the raw
image again and save that.
Again as JPEG,
this time as low-quality Facility 2.
And when we go to the finder,
Desktop demo.
Here I should have--
this one is 3 megabytes,
and that one is 144 kilobytes.
So you see that the slider
immediately took effect.
And I'll show you the code behind it,
that there really wasn't one of that.
[Transcript missing]
The first step, however,
Image I/O saves images, CG images,
and for all the adjustments,
we had a CI image because we're using
a CI filter or a series of CI filters.
So in our demo application,
we also have a utility method, CG image,
that converts the current CI image that's
being shown to the user into a CG image.
There's a number of ways of doing this.
This is one of those.
Basically, I use an sRGB format.
All of my files in this particular demo
are with the embedded sRGB profile.
And I render that image into a bitmap,
and then I can save that CG image
that was represented by that bitmap.
This is necessary because a CI image
doesn't really exist until you render it.
At this time,
I would like to use the opportunity
to point out another thing that
David has mentioned before,
which has to do with color profiles.
It's actually quite frightening how
many people don't use color profiles
every single time when they draw
something or when they save an image.
It's really important to do that,
when you go and surf the web,
especially when you're on a Macintosh.
A lot of people post pictures from
a PC without embedding a profile,
and then on the Mac,
which is a different default gamma value,
it looks kind of washed out.
And this will be getting more
and more important to maintain
that you always have a profile
embedded so that the computer
knows how to interpret those bits.
And in order to ensure that
you can find out if your
application is behaving correctly,
that all of its drawing is
done with color matching,
we have added a new
feature to Quartz Debug,
which helps with that particular problem.
I opened the-- window
listing Quartz Debug.
And here I can go and
select my application.
And when I right click,
you get a pop-up that allows me to turn
on one or both of the different warnings
that the system can issue for you,
for a device profile warning
and a screen profile warning.
If you load an image into your
computer without an embedded profile,
it will be by default
get the device profile,
which is-- dependent
from device to device.
And if you turn on that warning,
any time that that image is being drawn,
it will be drawn in a very funny way.
We invert some channels and stuff
like that to make it visible.
Similarly, sometimes the application will
load untagged images and convert
them to the screen profile.
And you can turn on the screen
profile warning as well.
On the other hand,
the screen profile warning might not
be always appropriate because you might
have-- just pre-profiled it for faster
rendering for the screen so that at the
time that the image is being rendered,
it doesn't take up any more time.
So we keep those two separate.
Now what's going to
happen if you turn it on?
Currently we have a bug in the seed
that you received that it actually
turns it on for the whole system,
not just for that one
application that you chose.
So the whole system is probably
going to go a little bit haywire.
What happens is you see this image did
not get inverted or in any other way.
It's just dramatically changed.
That has to do with the fact
that our sample application
treats color profiles correctly.
But I would encourage you to try that
feature on your own imaging application,
or any application for that matter,
because this will be getting
an increasingly bigger problem.
And you might find, for instance,
Cocoa Widgets turning
purple and stuff like that.
We're still working on our bugs.
But make sure that your components of
the UI work correctly in this sense.
And with that, back to David.
DAVID CHANDLER: Thank you.
So that was the last thing we
wanted to talk about today.